CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT   |   MAY 2023     5
www.destinationCRM.com
 
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
By JOHN ARNOLD
I
t’s harder than ever to satisfy B2B buyers. Eighty-three 
percent of buyers in 2022 said that they were dissatis-
fied with the winning provider after completing a pur-
chase. Marketing, product, and sales leaders need to 
be at the top of their game. Business buyer demands and the 
intricacies of business-buyer behavior will only increase and 
keep intensifying the competition for growth among B2B 
organizations.
The average B2B buying cycle is more 
complex than ever, involving three con-
sidered vendors, four separate depart-
ments, and eight people in the buying 
group—four of whom are outside the 
buyer’s company. But buying is also 
more streamlined: Most buyers com-
pleted their organization’s purchase in 
less than six months, and only 14 per-
cent of buyers conducting purchases of 
$1 million or more reported that their 
purchase took more than a year. More than half of purchases 
involved digital transactions, so a digital sales and marketing 
strategy is now table stakes. Meanwhile, the number of part-
ners needed to grow revenue is going to increase and become 
more complex. There are truly a lot of external forces for B2B 
growth leaders to juggle.
It may seem like everything is on fire and that there’s no for-
mula for competitive growth when there are so many things 
outside your control. But what actually causes B2B growth 
engines to stall or break down, and what do the best growth 
engines look like? Forrester Research recently completed a 
study involving hundreds of marketing, product, sales, and 
technology leaders to figure out where profitable, predictable, 
sustainable growth comes from and what the best growth 
engines consist of.
Two things from Forrester’s study on B2B growth were very 
clear. First, B2B companies that stop growing tend to lose focus 
on three key fundamentals that power their growth engines. 
Second, when companies lose sight of these fundamentals, 
marketing, sales, and product leaders tend to over-rotate on 
short-term strategies that aim to extract value from customers 
instead of prioritizing customer value creation.
Forrester’s research unveiled the three fundamental drivers 
of the best B2B growth engines and used them as the basis 
for a new growth strategy model called the B2B customer- 
obsessed growth engine. Forrester has found that organiza-
tions we’ve determined to be customer-obsessed are three 
times more likely to achieve 10 percent or higher growth 
in revenue, profits, and customer retention than companies 
that do not qualify as customer-obsessed. Here are the three 
drivers of Forrester’s customer-obsessed growth engine:
1. Business buyer value. In terms of B2B growth, customer 
obsession means putting business buyer value at the center of 
vision, strategy, and execution. Forrester 
found that organizations need to use a 
variety of buyer insights and empower 
employees to engineer value across the 
organization’s entire ecosystem.
2. Revenue team alignment. It takes 
highly aligned marketing, product, and 
sales teams to deliver and exchange eco-
system value efficiently and consistently. 
Forrester found that winning in B2B 
requires marketing, product, and sales 
to be aligned around buyer value, not 
only internal processes.
3. Technology integration. Technology must be interlaced 
with revenue team alignment and buyer value to help power 
the growth engine. Forrester found that B2B organizations 
need to go beyond technical competence to master technol-
ogy-led innovation. Forrester also found that partnerships 
with technology functions are critical to sharing technology 
competencies across teams and individual leaders who do not 
consider technology to be a personal strength.
Forrester also found that the best growth engines are con-
ceptually simple yet challenging for some organizations to 
execute. It’s easy for organizations to say that they are putting 
customers first or aligning teams or using technology more 
holistically. But organizational friction can turn into gridlock 
when initiatives take shape and start to tap the resources 
required to develop and sustain a winning growth engine. 
As the competition for growth continues to challenge B2B 
organizations, Forrester’s advice for all organizations build-
ing and optimizing a growth engine is to keep an outside-in 
perspective. Let customer obsession and the voice of the cus-
tomer challenge internal thinking and lead the organization 
to change and achieve growth together.  
John Arnold is a principal analyst at Forrester Research. Based in Massachusetts, 
Arnold helps B2B organizations grow revenue with marketing strategies for a 
digital-first world. He is an expert in frontline marketing strategies and the 
cocreator of Forrester’s life cycle revenue marketing approach.
Three Drivers of the Best 
B2B Growth Engines   
What causes B2B growth engines to break down, and 
what do the best growth engines look like? 
