WSJ Leadership Institute
Presents: Leaders
MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2026
4/6/2026 5:00:00 AM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO
Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’
Zoom founder and CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang explain the company’s
pivot to “Zoom 2.0.” From the deployment of AI digital twins in the C-suite to the
future of the five-day workweek, Zoom’s leadership explains how they are
balancing massive AI investments with shareholder returns. Recorded on March
24, 2026.
FULL TRANSCRIPT
This transcript was prepared by a transcription service. This version may
not be in its final form and may be updated.
Eric Yuan: I really do not think we need to work for five days because
literally we all will employ so many digital agents. And I think we all have
more time for human-to-human interaction like this.
ALL PODCASTS
WSJ.COM
Share This Episode
00:00 / 32:03
1x
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
1/28
Michelle Chang: This isn't a disagreement, but I think to build on that, I
think about it less as the quantity and more of what it will feel like.
Alan Murray: The WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: Leaders. I'm Alan
Murray. During the pandemic, Zoom became a household name. It was the
defining technology that kept the world connected when everyone else shut
down. But founder and CEO, Eric Yuan is done talking about the past. He
has a strong vision about how Zoom can transform the AI future. And he
and his CFO, Michelle Chang, spoke with me about it at our CFO summit in
Palo Alto earlier this year. I won't give it all away, but it hinges on turning
the conversations that happen on a Zoom call into actions powered by
digital agents. You're going to want to hear this because it could be a
window into the future of work. And by the way, here's something else Eric
said. "He believes that future will lead to a three-day work week." I'm not
sure I agree with him on that, but he makes a strong case. We're going to
dive right in after the break. I have to start with something I only learned
recently, which is that you had your digital twin, your AI digital twin do an
earnings call instead of you.
Eric Yuan: That's right.
Alan Murray: Anybody else seen that before? Any of you do have digital
twins?
Michelle Chang: Prepared remarks only. I feel compelled to-
Eric Yuan: I wish my digital twin can join today's session. I can stay at
home.
Alan Murray: Well, we're very happy to have you here in person. But why
did you do that?
Eric Yuan: Actually, literally it did save me a lot of time. Remember, since
we became a public company in 2019, every time during the quarter earning
call, guess what? I needed to either record a script or read a script. I hated
that. I do not like it. And later on, we levered our AI technology. For now, I
can tell you I truly enjoy our quarter earning call. I just joined our earning
call for-
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
2/28
Alan Murray: Because you just listened.
Eric Yuan: No, for live Q&A. And Michelle, she's going to talk, drive the
whole session. I joined for live Q&A.
Alan Murray: So it didn't answer any questions though.
Eric Yuan: Right.
Alan Murray: It could have answered questions.
Eric Yuan: Yeah. Live Q&A for questions, but a script part, I can leverage
Zoom video clips to play around my video clip.
Alan Murray: Michelle, did he ask you about whether this was a good idea
before he decided?
Michelle Chang: He did. He told me, and I have to say I was a little skeptical,
but I actually think it's-
Alan Murray: As always.
Michelle Chang: I know. We have that dynamic. But yeah, it was a good
choice actually. It was a fun way to get the message of our product out. And
look, it strikes that right balance that I think we've been talking about,
about the in-person, the Q&A that really matters is still human-to-human
dialogue and the others.
Alan Murray: Does he ever send his digital twin in to meet with you for a
meeting?
Michelle Chang: If he has, then I haven't figured it out yet. No.
Eric Yuan: She does not accept my invitation. So if I send my digital twin.
Michelle Chang: No.
Alan Murray: So you know you're speaking to an audience of CFOs here. Tell
me what you were looking for when you hired Michelle.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
3/28
Michelle Chang: Oh, my gosh, I should write this down.
Eric Yuan: So it's great experience working together with Michelle. So I look
at her for the Zoom 2.0 journey, right? How to grow our business from $5
billion company to be a $10 billion company, right? And being a founder and
a CEO, quite often I look at top line growth, bottom line cost control,
customer interaction, product employees. A lot of work. I really want to
have a business partner. Essentially more like a co-CEO with a deep
financial background.
Alan Murray: So you think of her as almost a co-CEO?
Eric Yuan: Yeah.
Alan Murray: Is she your number two?
Eric Yuan: Yeah, absolutely.
Alan Murray: I don't want to embarrass you here, Michelle.
Eric Yuan: Yeah. It's very deep, the financial background. Essentially, look
at what Michelle does every day, I think very similar to what I'm doing,
right? Top line, bottom line, product, business strategy and employee
customer, very similar.
Alan Murray: Does she ever say no to you?
Eric Yuan: Oh, my God, this is quite often. So I can tell you, whenever we
hired a new executive to join our e-staff meeting for the first few weeks,
always wonder what's happening for your e-staff meeting because we
debate heavily during our e-staff meeting because we trust each other. We
want to be ourselves. Quite often I do not like (inaudible) obviously yes,
obviously no. It's kind of a challenge each other with her great background,
working for Microsoft for so many years, deep financial background. It's
very healthy dialogue.
Alan Murray: Yeah. So let's talk about that, Michelle. I mean, as Eric said,
you were working for Microsoft, not a bad company. What attracted you
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
4/28
about this job?
Michelle Chang: Yeah, I think-
Alan Murray: Zoom experience better.
Michelle Chang: Yeah. On that one really quick, fun little side story. When
I'm in airports, I don't think once in 24 years somebody ever stopped me to
say how much they love a company. And without fail, probably at a 30% hit,
people stop and say how much they love Zoom. And I think it's a testament.
Alan Murray: Really? Emotional connection.
Michelle Chang: And they have no idea who I am. So this is not like anything
where the title, but I think it's because of the love that Eric has kept the
customer at the center of a lot of things. So I give Eric a lot of credit for that.
So I picked up the call because I knew that it was a great company that
came to the world's needs. But honestly, what kept me sort of talking to
Eric was a lot of what he described in Zoom 2.0 and a sense that I could
have a lot to learn, which is really important to me and that I could help in
some way.
Eric Yuan: I guess your kids also use the Zoom, right? That also helped.
Michelle Chang: They did in the pandemic, but we were also a heavy
Microsoft shop at that point. I was the team CFO during the pandemic.
Alan Murray: How could you use Zoom? You couldn't use Zoom. You
weren't allowed to use Zoom, were you, at Microsoft?
Michelle Chang: No.
Alan Murray: All right. But let's talk about that Zoom 2.0 because we all
know Zoom-
Michelle Chang: Yeah.
Eric Yuan: Thank you.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
5/28
Alan Murray: ... Zoom 1.0. I mean, it was an incredible experience. And I
want to come back to the experience of the pandemic because I'm curious
how that affects a company to be on a rollercoaster ride like that. But leave
that aside for a minute. Tell us where we are going in Zoom 2.0. What is
your vision?
Eric Yuan: So maybe I should take a step back to look at what we're doing
every day no matter how many hours you work on anything. Essentially it
really comes down to two interactions, human-to-human interaction like
this or Zoom call or the human-to-system interaction.
Alan Murray: Human-to-systems?
Eric Yuan: Yes.
Alan Murray: Like your CRM or...
Eric Yuan: Yeah, exactly like your CRM, email chat, any computer system,
human-to-system. I think for now most of the time to complete a task, it
will need a two-step process. Human-to-human interaction and then
human-to-system interaction. I think in the AI era, the human-to-system
interaction, by and large, will be replaced by agentic interaction, meaning
agent can help you to log into your backend system, get a thing done. But
human-to-human interaction will remain the same.
Alan Murray: And so what that means, if I understand you correctly, so
we'll be on a Zoom call and we will agree on something and the Zoom call
will then take that action for us, whether it's to go out and buy something
or log it into the CRM or send an email to someone, it will happen
automatically without the second step.
Eric Yuan: Exactly right. That's why I see our vision is to transform our
business being a communication company to a system of action company,
essentially model from conversation to completion, meaning after the
Zoom call is over, we generate transcription summary of insights, a
leverage workflow or agent to automatically update it back in the system.
Alan Murray: And how far are you from that vision?
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
6/28
Eric Yuan: We already have those features built in.
Alan Murray: Really?
Eric Yuan: We just announced literally last, I think recently at Enterprise
Connect.
Michelle Chang: Yeah. (inaudible)
Alan Murray: And Michelle, we've had a lot of conversation over the last
couple of days about how we've talked with Jeff Hoffmeister from Shopify,
for instance, about how this AI transformation often leaves the CFO sitting
at the center of critical decisions because people who want money for
investment on some new project have to come to you and you have to
decide, is this something AI should do or is this something people should
do. How do you deal with that?
Michelle Chang: Well, I think what Eric said about kind of our relationship, I
think it's in part kind of the role, but it's also like there's not that many
people at a company that can see left to right across everything. Oftentimes
you know kind of your discipline. And so having people that can see a
company from one end to the other allows you to kind of be able to look and
say, "Okay, how do you both get tops-down kind of pressure to get on AI?
How do you start virality? How do you think about the return that Eric and I
are going to have to talk to investors about?" And so a lot of it I think is we
tend to go to forums like this and then we come back and we compare notes
about where everybody else is and how we're tracking. And look, Eric takes
lead obviously on the R&D side and how we implement AI there. And I take
lead in kind of the areas where the financials are more front and center
today.
Alan Murray: So one thing that has been a big topic with this group for the
past year has been the question you just raised.
Michelle Chang: The ROI.
Alan Murray: The ROI. How important is that-
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
7/28
Michelle Chang: Of course.
Alan Murray: How important is that to you or do you think like, well, we can
wait a few years to get to that?
Michelle Chang: No, no.
Alan Murray: No.
Michelle Chang: And I mean, I would say for us, we sort of have two sides,
like what's the return of AI from a top line perspective because we're
obviously selling and that means you cannot lose sight of business value
from a customer. All of us are going to stare down proposals at some point
and want to know what the value is. So there's that. But in terms of the
cost-cutting, and I think it's a lot of like, okay, where does an AI naturally
play? Where do we have large costs? Where's the industry sort of seeing
early fruit? And we then go and for us, the formula looks something like
customer support. That's also a product that Zoom sells. So we get to be
customer zero in that journey. Sales, another big cost center. What does AI
in sales look like? What does it look like in terms of product development?
And then there's sort of the general employee productivity piece.
Eric Yuan: Good news. Whenever I request more budget to spin on AI,
Michelle supportive because not only do we look at the short-term return,
but also look at long-term ROI, that's even more important.
Alan Murray: And how has this transition to AI affected your headcount?
Michelle Chang: We're flattish in headcount. I think we're also going
through this reinvention that we talked about. So I think in the fullness of
the time we'll be slightly down, but look within that, there's a lot of shift,
right? A lot of shift to higher value work, a lot of shift to different roles and
functions. And so I think it's sort of misleading to just leave it at a flattish-
Alan Murray: I want to just put all of you on notice. I want to leave a lot of
time in this segment for you to ask questions. I think Eric said he wanted to
answer questions from the CFOs.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
8/28
Eric Yuan: So many great CFOs here. Why not?
Alan Murray: Right. Maybe customers.
Eric Yuan: Yes.
Alan Murray: But let's go back to this vision for the future because you want
Zoom to be the agent that gets work done within the enterprise. You're not
the only company that wants that.
Eric Yuan: Yes, that's right.
Alan Murray: Yeah. Why will Zoom win this battle?
Eric Yuan: Because again, as I said, to get anything done today, literally you
need two-step processes or two interactions, human-to-human interaction,
human-to-system interaction. We are uniquely positioned as a vendor for
human-to-human interaction. The human-to-human interaction essentially
become the user interface to get a thing done. The human-to-system
interaction, that interface will be replaced by agent.
Alan Murray: So you're capturing the data at the front end the way, I mean-
Eric Yuan: Yes.
Alan Murray: ... Microsoft Teams might have a somewhat similar-
Eric Yuan: No, which experience better than customer probably can
leverage that more. As long as we keep innovating, customer embrace the
Zoom model more and after the conversation is over, agent can interact
with the system.
Alan Murray: And how do you think about human in the loop in this
process? I mean, the agent who's on that call can go do things very quickly
if you want them to, but what kind of controls are you putting in the
system?
Eric Yuan: I think first of all, you got to make sure human-to-human
interaction are seamless. That's very important. The second thing is before
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
9/28
you delegate it to agent to update your backend system, as a human being,
you need to validate the data. I call it the context window. If you human-to-
human interaction jumps to the human-to-system interaction, in the
middle you have a context window. You need to make sure that someone in
the middle of that to validate this data.
Alan Murray: So it will say, "Do you want me to send that email? Do you
want me to put this in the CRM?"
Eric Yuan: Yes.
Alan Murray: "Did I order that box of things?"
Eric Yuan: Yeah, you can look at all the data, make sure this is right data and
then one click to submit.
Alan Murray: And you say most of these tools exist in Zoom now?
Eric Yuan: Absolutely. Literally I'm using that every day.
Alan Murray: And are your customers using it?
Eric Yuan: Yes, some big customer and also we announced the Enterprise
Connect and we have a new release April 20th, another release May 11 and
further promote those services.
Michelle Chang: And our finance team is using it.
Alan Murray: Your finance team is currently using it. And how has it
changed the way the finance team operates?
Michelle Chang: I mean, I fundamentally as a CFO, let me start there. I
prepare for earnings significantly differently than I used to in terms of it
helps me tighten answers, it helps me curate, it helps me predict.
Alan Murray: Will it create PowerPoint slides for you?
Michelle Chang: Sure, sure, sure. We use Gemini as well. So we use a lot of
different AI tools, but on the Zoom ones, like for our SOX control, we use it
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
10/28
to scan over transactions, look for risk, highlight things that we wouldn't
have otherwise seen, begin to write, audit and report. So we use it a lot in
risk control. We also use it a lot with our customers. Our customers used to
have really in-depth tax questions for us that actually were clogging up a
lot of our customer interactions and some (inaudible) And so we built
together with what Eric's talking about, we built sort of an agent to help
answer those and get customers what they need faster.
Alan Murray: So it gets back to that customer zero thing you were talking
about earlier. You guys start with it yourselves.
Michelle Chang: Yeah.
Alan Murray: Questions for Eric? Yes, please.
Speaker 4: Eric and Michelle, thanks so much for being here. I have a bit of a
two-part question. The first question is around capital allocation. How do
you balance the discipline of innovating and investing and innovating while
at the same time making sure that the core business is producing the cash
needed to fund the new innovation? So that's kind of the first question. The
second question gets into competitive moat. As you think about the agentic
dimension of your new strategy, Zoom 2.0, how do you think about building
agentic in-house versus partnering with some of the big players that seem
to have a lot of experience across multiple industries? So how does that
play into your equation about competitive mode, building in-house versus
outsourcing?
Eric Yuan: Yeah. How about I address the second one, you address the first
one?
Michelle Chang: Okay. On the capital allocation, look, we go through a long-
range planning cycle where we talk quite a bit as a leadership team about
how do we get to the long-term goals that we want. And then every quarter
or every year we kind of go through an exercise where it's like, what are the
priorities of Zoom? And I think that's like the most fundamental question to
answer with capital allocation. If you know that this is what it's going to
take to get you where you want to go, what then are the priorities for the
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action/…
11/28
next call it year or two years? And really those priorities, we debate the
name quite a bit. We had quite a vigorous debate amongst our leadership
teams of which ones rose to the surface and all of that, but there's
something so healthy in that. And then basically that serves as our frame
for how we talk to investors about what we're prioritizing and then every
dollar and headcount and that gets sort of moved into that frame so that we
can zoom out, no pun intended, and be able to look at is our money where
our mouth is in terms of what we say are our priorities, our dollars going
there.
Eric Yuan: Yeah. So back to your second part of the question. So look at
Zoom 1.0 journey, by and large, we're more like a conversation company
after meetings over, it's over. You do not have any data generated out of the
meeting. In 2.0 journey, we already generated a transcription summary for
a while, recently we launched a cross-platform my notes. So essentially
almost every meeting is over, you have some data. Those data are very
important for the AI, for the agentic framework or workflow. And also our
agentic framework is open, meaning we embrace other system like
Anthropic. At the same time also offer agenetic framework to customer as
well.
Alan Murray: So you can, just to make sure I understand, so you can
integrate Zoom with any agent?
Eric Yuan: Absolutely. Yeah. Like the Anthropic we integrate very well. Any
other open system we do integrate very well. And also give customer
choice, right? After you generate transcription or summary, you can
leverage our agent or workflow, get thing done.
Alan Murray: And so then what is the moat?
Eric Yuan: I think data and also the experience.
Alan Murray: You provide the best human-to-human experience and that
will be your moat for... And the data that gives you-
Eric Yuan: Yeah. Data to help the agent to drive the get work done. Yeah.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
12/28
Alan Murray: Does that convince you?
Speaker 4: Well, the question is going to be the level of competition because
you can really see today different platforms that can get into that space as
well. Oh, sorry.
Alan Murray: Yeah. I think that's what's so interesting about this moment.
You do have so many big well capitalized players playing for the same space
and everybody brings a somewhat different advantage to that space.
Eric Yuan: No, yes and no. Look at all those very big successful RM
companies. I do not think they focus on human-to-human direction. And
also not to mention the context window as well. Human interaction, that's
our strengths, and then we move towards the completion part, we also have
a context window and also open system. Let's say take a federal approach,
for example. I do not think in the future, every company, they are going to
standardize one system. Very likely to standardize multiple systems. We
look at our AI, the philosophy. We are taking a federated AI approach. In
terms of aging the framework, we are doing something similar. Also
support embrace the federated agentic framework.
Speaker 4: I'd like to volunteer to be a beta on 2.0.
Eric Yuan: Thank you.
Michelle Chang: Contact me afterwards. Be happy to get you set up.
Eric Yuan: That's why I'm here. Thank you.
Alan Murray: Other questions or comments?
Michelle Chang: And maybe just while we wait for the next question, in case
maybe the group isn't as familiar with the term federated. What it means is
basically we will take Zoom's AI models that we built ourselves, as well as
those of OpenAI or Anthropic or other players, and basically we'll curate to
get the best answer at the lowest cost. So it's helpful.
Alan Murray: Who else wants... I have lots of them, so-
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
13/28
Michelle Chang: Yeah.
Alan Murray: ... yes, right here.
Yolis Reese: Hi, we've been talking a lot about capital-
Alan Murray: I'm sorry. And can you introduce yourself to-
Yolis Reese: Sure. I'm Yolis Reese. I'm not currently a CFO of anything, I'm
between jobs. But there's been a lot of conversations about capital
allocation yesterday and today into AI. And I'm just curious, how do you
make those allocations? There's a lot of areas you can invest the product
itself and the additional development, but then internally to sales,
marketing, finance, all kinds of tools. So how are you making those
decisions? Do you have a framework, a forum? How do you go about that?
Michelle Chang: Do you want me to lead out?
Eric Yuan: Yeah, go please.
Michelle Chang: Yeah. I mean, I think we have an overall framework. First,
I'll set aside the top line and we also monetize AI. So setting that aside, I
think the question's a little bit more on the cost side. It first starts with
being able to track tokens and to see them to really understand. And look,
the ultimate framework that we use is some degree of either holding flat or
reducing costs. I would say that we try not to overly constrain it. In a tech
business, it's also very important that you encourage ideation and all of
that. And then maybe the other thing that I think Zoom did that was smart
is we started like an AI champions group. So let's pick a passionate person
in each discipline. Let's make sure that they're extra connected with the
center, that they know how to use the tools, that they know what's available
to them, and then they can act as sort of a disseminator within the team. So
I think it's uber financial frameworks, insights into where it's actually being
used, because a lot of this is going to be iteration and learning, and then
creating that virality. I love what Gina said earlier about it's a tops-down
and it's a bottoms up.
Alan Murray: Yeah, you got to have them both.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
14/28
Eric Yuan: So one example is that, as Michelle mentioned, our total
headcount is flat. However, you look at our R&D headcount, in particular for
AI engineers, was still growing very well. Even this fiscal year, we also hire
a lot.
Alan Murray: A lot. And when you think about AI, Eric, are you thinking
cost control or are you thinking revenue expansion?
Eric Yuan: For sure revenue expansion.
Alan Murray: You let her worry about the cost control?
Michelle Chang: Oh, I worry plenty about the revenue too.
Eric Yuan: She's worrying both side.
Alan Murray: That other company that you worked for, how is the culture
different than working for Zoom?
Michelle Chang: Than Zoom? Yeah. I mean, I already talked probably the
first and foremost is what I said about customer.
Alan Murray: Really focused on the customer.
Eric Yuan: Before we can make the customer happy.
Michelle Chang: It's very different vibe of just like every conversation just
gets back to customers at that point. And I don't want to say that my
predecessor didn't love customers too, but that's probably the most
fundamental. And then frankly, I think there isn't as much bureaucracy and
you can kind of get to putting things into action and really trying and
iterating. And there's a scrappiness and a pace that I think exists at Zoom
that didn't exist.
Alan Murray: Don't all companies become bureaucratized over time?
Michelle Chang: Yeah, maybe that's a bit at the size of it happening.
Eric Yuan: Yeah error. Yes, that's right.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
15/28
Michelle Chang: Yeah.
Alan Murray: How do you fight that as the founder, CEO?
Eric Yuan: I think speed is everything. On develop, every day we talk about
speed. Michelle probably can share more actually every day, almost every
meetings, I'm pushing team very hard because I push myself very hard as
well. Fast, faster speed, speed, velocity every day. Whenever someone tells
me the schedule really scale next week, I think, "Why not this Friday?"
Almost every time to all Q2, I think, "Why not the first month is Q2?" Every
time, no exceptions.
Alan Murray: I want to go back to the pandemic experience because it was
such a unique experience. You weren't at the company at that time, but the
stock price was floating around, I don't know, 70, 80, $80 a share. And then
we hit March of 2020 and you zoom literally to over $500.
Eric Yuan: That's the worst time so.
Alan Murray: The worst time?
Eric Yuan: Yes.
Alan Murray: Why? What was your net worth on paper? How can that be
worst?
Eric Yuan: Remember, that's on paper, okay? No, the problem is-
Speaker 6: (inaudible) is coming after you.
Eric Yuan: No, no. The problem is I know what's going to happen next
because we have a lot of employees, especially young, let's say sales reps.
When they see the stock price, they calculate the money they have.
Alan Murray: They're retiring.
Eric Yuan: They retire, exactly.
Alan Murray: They're moving to the Caribbean.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
16/28
Eric Yuan: After COVID, most of engineers still here. We lost a lot of, I would
say, the sales reps and other executives. It's not sustainable. Not to
mentioning, I also made a huge mistake.
Alan Murray: You didn't like it?
Eric Yuan: I hate that too much. That's one thing. The second thing, because
the traffic, because so many new users, we had to hire more employees.
Literally, I made a huge mistake. We hired more than 6,000 employees
within 18 months window.
Alan Murray: Just to manage.
Eric Yuan: The culture completely broken. If Michelle, at that time, for sure
she did not want to join at that time. So culture is-
Alan Murray: And so then what happened? We know what happened to the
stock price. It went from 550-
Eric Yuan: I know that too.
Alan Murray: ... back down to where it started. Maybe you could have ended
up somewhere in between.
Eric Yuan: (inaudible) you wake up and say, "My God, back to yesterday." So
yeah.
Alan Murray: But what happened to the employees?
Eric Yuan: I think we spent a lot of time over the past three years really try
to fix the culture problem. I can tell you prior to COVID, I think this is
probably the best company I worked for. This is company I dreamed about.
Build a company care about employee, every employee very happy, make a
customer happy. And the culture broken, everything is so hard and it took
us three years. I think we finally were-
Alan Murray: Three years to fix the damage that was caused by the
pandemic.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
17/28
Eric Yuan: Yeah, yeah. Finally, we are out of the woods.
Alan Murray: But wouldn't you kind of like to see that stock price go up
now?
Michelle Chang: Yes.
Eric Yuan: Yeah, from now on throughout journey.
Michelle Chang: We have been, for those tracking it, while most sales
companies have been down, we're up.
Alan Murray: That's true. You weren't part of the SaaSpocalypse. You had
your apocalypse earlier.
Michelle Chang: We had a pandemic moment. We had a post-pandemic.
Eric Yuan: Regardless stock price up and down. AI is a new technology, a
new transformation. I think being the founder and CEO, I still truly enjoy
that.
Alan Murray: But I'm sure, Michelle, that that was currency that was used
to retain talent as it is in many companies, the stock price.
Michelle Chang: Yep. Yeah.
Alan Murray: I mean, I guess that's a big part of that three-year
adjustment.
Eric Yuan: We also have a $7.80 billion cash. So not only stock. So we can
invest more. AI is good example.
Alan Murray: So cast forward, five years from now, what is the world of
work going to look like and what is the role that Zoom is going to have in
that world? And I want both of you to answer this question. Disagree a little
bit if you want to.
Michelle Chang: All right.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
18/28
Eric Yuan: I can start because I like this question a lot because I hate
working for five days. And five years old very likely, even two years ago, I
mentioned that four days working week will become new paradigm.
Alan Murray: Really? You think so?
Eric Yuan: I think I'm wrong. I think five years old, maybe three days. I do
not know. I think probably better. I really do not think we need to work over
five days because literally we all will employ so many digital agents. And I
think we all have more time for human-to-human interaction like this. And
probably you can spend more time talking with your customers, partners,
your high school classmates and your family members. I think Zoom uses
also be still very healthy.
Alan Murray: But Eric, we've been hearing those predictions for a hundred
years or more, 150 years that productivity increases were going to make it
possible for us to work three days a week. Nobody in this room works three
days a week. Do you think-
Eric Yuan: That's a good question. Look at history. In 1924, I think Henry
Ford, he revolutionized working week from six days to five days. 100 years
later, still five days.
Alan Murray: Still five days.
Eric Yuan: Yeah. This is the right time.
Alan Murray: Yeah.
Eric Yuan: I'm pretty sure actually we really do not need to work for five
days.
Alan Murray: And you think that'll change over the next five years?
Eric Yuan: Absolutely. Look at what we do every day, right? You spend all
the time on email chat message, meetings, conversations, log into the
backend of systems. I think AI agent can truly help us. You can have a 10 or
maybe 100,000 digital agents working for you.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
19/28
Alan Murray: Have an army of digital agents you mean?
Eric Yuan: Yeah, yeah.
Alan Murray: Michelle, how is work-life going to change?
Michelle Chang: This isn't a disagreement, but I think to build on that, I
think about it less as the quantity and more of what it will feel like. And I
think for me, it's an ease of things right now and I'll just use when I first
came to Zoom, I'm sure everybody has had this. All of a sudden I no longer
had a PC, I no longer had all the software that I know how to use and I don't
know how to get anywhere. But now instead of having to know all of these
apps and how you navigate it, it's going to just get served up sort of where
you are in your flow of work and there's an ease that comes from that. The
second thing that I sort of picture when I hear a lot of the vision that Eric is
describing is, and I think you see this with a lot of tech transformation, you
shift value. Like I had this dialogue with a woman at Nasdaq once where she
was convinced that accountants weren't going to be as good because they
didn't have the T accounts. I remember those from like ... And I was like,
"No, it just means they're going to shift to a higher level of work and
thinking." And you know what I mean? And I think we'll look back and think
that AI is something like that. Like I'm excited for my FP&A people that no
longer have to spend as much time in spreadsheets or, you know what I
mean? Or can learn about the business. Every FP&A person deeply wants to
spend time with the business and learn more about the business. Think
about-
Alan Murray: So people can move to high level.
Michelle Chang: ... what a powerful tool. A shift in value of work and an ease
of experience.
Alan Murray: Fascinating. So will you both come back in five years and let's
see-
Michelle Chang: Yeah.
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
20/28
Eric Yuan: I think by the way, I forgot to mention the key is really not about
our generation. We really need to think about five years old or 10 years old,
what can we do differently to create more opportunities for young
generation? That's a key, I think.
Alan Murray: Yeah. Yeah.
Eric Yuan: Because we can enjoy the beach time, but we want the kids still
find something new, exciting to work.
Alan Murray: Yeah. Well, we will ask you back and we'll review how it's
worked and where Zoom and send it-
Eric Yuan: I was sending my digital twin join at that time.
Alan Murray: Thank you so much for taking the time.
Eric Yuan: Thank you.
Alan Murray: Today's episode was produced by Kevin Burke, Michael
Claudio, and Lulu Chang. It was edited by Nicole Zarilla, and my executive
producer is Lulu Chang.
Looking for more episodes? Find them wherever you listen to podcasts.
MORE WAYS TO LISTEN
RSS
SHARE THIS PODCAST
SUBSCRIBE
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
21/28
HOSTED BY
Alan Murray
President, The WSJ Leadership Institute, The Wall Street Journal
What’s News
What's News brings you the biggest news
of the day, from business and finance to
global and political developments that
move markets. Get caught up in minutes
twice a day on weekdays, then take a step
back with our What’s News in Markets
wrap-up on Saturday and our What’s
News Sunday deep dive.
SUBSCRIBE
Minute Briefing
The top business headlines from The Wall
Street Journal, three times daily. Whether
it’s the latest on overseas markets,
economic news out of Washington or
closing numbers from Wall Street, you'll
be in the know in a flash.
SUBSCRIBE
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
22/28
Tech News Briefing
Tech News Briefing is your guide to what
people in tech are talking about. Every
weekday, we’ll bring you breaking tech
news and scoops from the pros at the Wall
Street Journal, insight into new
innovations and policy debates, tips from
our personal tech team, and exclusive
interviews with movers and shakers in the
industry.
SUBSCRIBE
The Journal.
The most important stories about money,
business and power. Hosted by Ryan
Knutson and Jessica Mendoza. The
Journal is a co-production of Spotify and
The Wall Street Journal.
SUBSCRIBE
Opinion: Potomac
Watch
From the award-winning opinion pages of
The Wall Street Journal, Paul Gigot, Kim
Strassel, Bill McGurn and Kyle Peterson
discuss the latest from Washington. Get
critical perspective and the analysis you
need on developments from the nation’s
Your Money Briefing
Your Money Briefing is your personal-
finance and career checklist, with the
news that affects your money and what
you do with it. From spending and saving
to investing and taxes, the Wall Street
Journal’s finance reporters and experts
break down complicated money questions
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
23/28
capital. Join them every weekday. Send
your feedback to pwpodcast@wsj.com
SUBSCRIBE
every weekday to help you make better
decisions about managing your money.
SUBSCRIBE
WSJ's Take On the
Week
WSJ's Take On the Week brings you the
insights and analysis you need to get a leg
up on the world of money and investing.
We cut through the noise and dive into
markets, the economy and finance. Join
show co-hosts Telis Demos and Miriam
Gottfried in conversation with the people
closest to the hot topics in markets to get
incisive analysis on the big trades, key
players in finance and business news. The
duo will unpack need-to-know
information and bring actionable insights
to a range of investors and business
leaders, while also entertaining a broader
audience with lively, relatable
conversations. Episodes drop Sundays.
SUBSCRIBE
PAID PROGRAM
Techfluential by
Deloitte
How can influencing differently lead to
new opportunities? Join Deloitte’s Lou
DiLorenzo Jr. in conversation with the C-
Suite leaders bringing business and
technology together to transform
organizations and drive strategic value.
SUBSCRIBE
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
24/28
Opinion: Free
Expression
Based on his Wall Street Journal Opinion
column "Free Expression," Editor-at-Large
Gerry Baker speaks every week with some
of the world's leading writers, influencers
and thinkers about a variety of subjects.
Baker will welcome his guests from the
worlds of politics, philosophy, and culture
for wide-ranging dialogues that will
enlighten and fascinate listeners.
Episodes will be released each week.
SUBSCRIBE
PAID PROGRAM
A New Era of
American Innovation
As the United States approaches its 250th
anniversary, the country is entering a new
era—one powered by the transformative
promise of artificial intelligence.
SUBSCRIBE
PAID PROGRAM
Better Vantage by
Vanguard
In this eight-part series, Vanguard’s Global
Chief Economist and Global Head of the
Investment Strategy Group Joe Davis co-
hosts lively conversations that provide
All Things with Kim
Strassel
From the Wall Street Journal Opinion
page, “Potomac Watch” columnist Kim
Strassel goes one-on-one with the
newsmakers of the week: from candidates
to campaign-managers, politicians to
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
25/28
timely, actionable and data-driven
insights that challenge conventional
thinking.
SUBSCRIBE
pollsters. The place to find news, insight
and debate on both the overhyped and
overlooked Washington storylines. Send
your feedback to atkim@wsj.com
SUBSCRIBE
PAID PROGRAM
Crafting Capital
What’s next for private markets? Discover
how the financial ecosystem for investors,
businesses and the world at large is
transforming, and how investors are
staying ahead of the curve. Join us for a
behind-the-scenes look at the forces
shaping today’s investment landscape.
SUBSCRIBE
Bold Names
WSJ’s Bold Names brings you
conversations with the leaders of the
bold-named companies featured in The
Wall Street Journal. Hosts Tim Higgins
and Christopher Mims speak to CEOs and
business leaders in interviews that
challenge conventional wisdom and take
you inside the decisions being made in the
C-suite and beyond.
SUBSCRIBE
PAID PROGRAM
PAID PROGRAM
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
26/28
AI That Means
Business
What’s next for artificial intelligence? And
how are companies putting it to work in
the here and now? Join Google experts for
a deep dive into the technology that’s
changing the world of business—and
pretty much everything else.
SUBSCRIBE
The Future Is
Cognitive
Say goodbye to data silos, data gaps, and
one way information flows. Say hello to
brand new revenue streams and more
sustainable business models as data is
shared across the value chain.
SUBSCRIBE
Bad Bets
Bad Bets unravels big-business dramas
that have had a big impact on our world. In
Season 2, we delve into the story of Nikola
founder Trevor Milton, who promised a
future of zero-emission trucks but was
taken down by a ragtag bunch of
whistleblowers and short sellers. Season 2
is hosted by Ben Foldy.
SUBSCRIBE
As We Work
Work smarter and advance in your career
with the As We Work podcast. With
actionable steps grounded in WSJ
reporting, As We Work gives practical
advice to help you improve your work life.
Hear compelling conversations with
everyday people, experts and WSJ
reporters as we focus on the workplace
topics that are top of mind and offer tips
and tricks for handling the thorniest of
situations.
SUBSCRIBE
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
27/28
Customer Service
Privacy Notice
Cookie Notice
© 2026 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
PAID PROGRAM
The Data Agenda
From major league sports to cutting-edge
e-commerce, discover how Amazon Web
Services is helping companies reinvent
their business with data.
SUBSCRIBE
Secrets of Wealthy
Women
Empower yourself financially. Successful
women executives, workplace pioneers,
self-made entrepreneurs, industry
trendsetters and money-savvy experts
reveal insights on how to get ahead, reach
your goals, and achieve professional
success. They join host Veronica Dagher
every Wednesday.
SUBSCRIBE
4/27/26, 11:40 PM
Zoom's 2.0 Vision: CEO Eric Yuan and CFO Michelle Chang on Building a ‘System of Action’ - WSJ Leadership Institute Presents: …
https://www.wsj.com/podcasts/wsj-leadership-institute-leaders/zoom-20-vision-ceo-eric-yuan-and-cfo-michelle-chang-on-building-a-system-of-action…
28/28
